# Holberton AirBnB Clone Data Models

## __init__ Module

### Attributes

This package and its modules import and are imported by many other modules, so be especially careful with the order of the lines you write in models/\_\_init\_\_.py.

---

#### models. classes

A dictionary mapping all of the installed data model class names to the data model classes themselves. This mapping is generated by pulling a list of all Python files in the models directory, converting their names to TitleCase, and removing underscores. The result of this string transformation is assumed to be the name of the data model class contained within.

Other modules use this dictionary to allow them to look through all the installed data model classes without having to hard-code a list of supported ones. This feature means you can introduce new data models easily without changing anyone else's code.

---

#### models. storage

A [`Storage`](engine#storage) object that all data models will use for persistence. Changing this definition in the file lets you switch between different storage engines if you need to.

---

## Amenity Module

### Classes

#### Amenity

```python
class Amenity (models.base_model.BaseModel)
```

An amenity available to tenants at a particular place.

##### Amenity Fields

* name (`str`): name of amenity

---

## Base_Model Module

### Classes

#### BaseModel

```python
class BaseModel (object)
```

Known Subclasses:
* [`Amenity`](#amenity)
* [`City`](#city)
* [`Place`](#place)
* [`Review`](#review)
* [`State`](#state)
* [`User`](#user)

This is the base class of all data models. Most of the methods needed bydata models are fully implemented here, and all the other classes have to do is add more fields.

---

##### BaseModel Fields

* id (`str`): a UUID string that is unique among all data model objects
* created\_at (`datetime`): date and time when this object was created
* updated\_at (`datetime`): date and time when this object was last saved

---

##### Method Summary

| Method | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |
| [`__init__(self, *, **kwargs)`](#basemodel-__init__) | initialize a new object or construct one based on named attributes |
| [`__str__(self)`](#basemodel-__str__) | get a string representation of this object |
| [`save(self)`](#basemodel-save) | save this object to storage |
| [`to_dict(self)`](#basemodel-to_dict) | get a dictionary representation of this object |

---

##### Method Details

###### BaseModel. \_\_init\_\_

```python
def __init__(self, *, **kwargs) -> None:
```

Exceptions:
* `TypeError` or `ValueError` if special-case keyword arguments are invalid

Initialize a data model object. With no keyword arguments, constructs a new object with a random ID and using the current time for [`created_at`](#basemodel-fields) and [`updated_at`](#basemodel-fields), then adds this new object to storage. With at least one keyword argument, constructs an object with attributes and values matching the given keyword arguments, but with some exceptions:
* an argument named "\_\_class\_\_" is ignored
* arguments named "created\_at" and "updated\_at" are assumed to be ISO 8601 time-and-date strings and are converted to `datetime` objects (if these arguments aren't present, the new object won't have these attributes)

Subclasses of `BaseModel` may add their own special cases for keyword arguments.

This method ignores all positional arguments, but they are allowed.

---

###### BaseModel. \_\_str\_\_

```python
def __str__(self) -> str
```

Exceptions:
* `AttributeError` if the [`id`](#basemodel-fields) attribute was omitted at object creation

Return a string representation of this object with the format `[class name] (object ID) {attribute 1: value 1, attribute 2: value 2...}`. Only instance attributes are included, and the string will end with "{}" if there aren't any.

---

###### BaseModel. save

```python
def save(self) -> None
```

Exceptions:
* see [`Storage.save`](engine#storage-save)

Save this object to storage. This uses [`models.storage`](#models-storage), so the actual storage technique isn't guaranteed, but this method does tell the storage object to commit your changes immediately.

Before saving, this method also updates this object's [`updated_at`](#basemodel-fields) field to the current date and time.

---

###### BaseModel .to\_dict

```python
def to_dict(self) -> Dict[str, Any]
```

Exceptions:
* `AttributeError` if special-case attributes have the wrong type or are missing


Return a dictionary containing all of this object's instance attributes (class attributes are not included). Keys in the dictionary are the attribute names and the values are the attribute values, with a few exceptions:
* attributes named "created_at" and "updated_at" are converted to strings by calling their `isoformat` methods before storing them in the dictionary
* a key called "\_\_class\_\_" is added to the dictionary containing the name of the object's class as a string

---

### City

```python
class City (BaseModel)
```

A city where places for rent can be found.

#### City Fields

* name (`str`): name of this city
* state\_id (`str`): the UUID of the [`State`](#state) object in which this city exists

---

### Place

```python
class Place (BaseModel)
```

A place (house, apartment, etc.) that is for rent.

#### Place Fields

* amenity\_ids (`List[str]`): the list of UUIDS of amenities available at this place
* city\_id (`str`): the UUID of the [`City`](#city) object in which this place exists
* description (`str`): a human-readable description of this place
* latitude (`float`): the latitude portion of the coordinate of this place
* longitude (`float`): the longitude portion of the coordinate of this place
* max\_guest (`int`): the maximum number of guests that can stay at this place at once
* name (`str`): a human-readable name for this place
* number\_rooms (`int`): the number of bedrooms at this place
* number\_bathrooms (`int`): the number of bathrooms at this place
* price\_by\_night (`int`): the price in U.S. dollars to rent this place for one night
* user\_id (`str`): the UUID of the user that listed this place for rent

---

### Review

```python
class Review (BaseModel)
```

A review from a tenant of a place for rent.

#### Review Fields

* place\_id (`str`): the UUID of the place that this review is about
* text (`str`): the text of the review
* user\_id (`str`): the UUID of the user who wrote the review

---

### State

```python
class State (BaseModel)
```

A U.S. state that contains places for rent.

#### State Fields

* name (`str`): the name of the state

---

### User

```python
class State (models.base_model.BaseModel)
```

A user of our site.

#### User Fields

* email (`str`): the user's e-mail address
* first\_name (`str`): the user's given name
* last\_name (`str`): the user's family name
* password (`str`): the user's password
